feat(JCE-623): add self-hosted optional features page (#388)
mia-platform/documentation: docs/self_hosted/optional_features.md

---
id: optional_features
title: Optional features
sidebar_label: Optional features
---

Mia-Platform Console offers some optional features which are disabled by default and can be enable as needed.

### Google Analytics Tracking

> Google Analytics Tracking can be enabled activating the feature toggle `ENABLE_GOOGLE_TAG_MANAGER`. It can be activated by a Company Owner using the CMS, in the "Feature Activations" section.

Reviewer: not by company owners but by Console Super Users; id make a generic paragraph above explaning only once how to activate any feature with the CMS and here only provide the information to be put in the CMS

---
id: optional_features
title: Optional features
sidebar_label: Optional features
---

Mia-Platform Console offers some optional features which are disabled by default and can be enable as needed.

Optional features can be enabled using **feature toggles** by a Console Super User.

> Features have one or multiple scopes, which are indicative of the area of the Conosole or the user interested by that feature. Available scopes are: Console, Company, Project, Environment, and User.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Features have one or multiple scopes, which are indicative of the area of the Console or the user interested by that feature. Available scopes are: Console, Company, Project, Environment, and User.
```

*Console* scope means that a feature is valid for the whole Console, all the other scopes require to provide a scope ID.

Available feature are visible from the *Features* section of the CMS.

To enable a feature, navigate to the *Feature Activations* section of the CMS, showing a table. Each entry in the table in *published* state represents an active feature.

> Click "Add new" and enter the feature ID, the scope type, and the scope ID (leave empty for Console scope). The just added feature activation will be in *published* state by default and immediatly enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click "Add new" and enter the feature ID, the scope type, and the scope ID (leave empty for Console scope). The just added feature activation will be in *published* state by default and immediately enabled.
```

### Google Analytics Tracking

Google Analytics Tracking can be enabled activating the feature toggle `ENABLE_GOOGLE_TAG_MANAGER`, with *Console* scope.

> When the feature is enabled in the Console, the users see a banner asking to express a preference either they would like to enable Google Analytics Tracking or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the feature toggle is enabled in the Console, users will be presented a banner asking to express a preference either they would like to enable Google Analytics Tracking or not.
```

Hence, this feature is activated on a per-user basis.

> Google Analytics help Mia-Platform improving the Console through future updates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Google Analytics helps Mia-Platform improving the Console, by understanding how users interact with the platform.
```

---
id: optional_features
title: Optional features
sidebar_label: Optional features
---

> Mia-Platform Console offers some optional features which are disabled by default and can be enable as needed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Mia-Platform Console offers some optional features which are disabled by default and can be enabled as needed.
```

Optional features can be enabled using **feature toggles** by a Console Super User.

> Features have one or multiple scopes, which are indicative of the area of the Console or the user interested by that feature. Available scope types are: Console, Company, Project, Environment, and User.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Features have one or multiple scopes, which are indicative of the Console resource type or the user interested by that feature. Available scope types are: Console, Company, Project, Environment, and User.
```

> Features have one or multiple scopes, which are indicative of the area of the Conosole or the user interested by that feature. Available scope types are: Console, Company, Project, Environment, and User.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Features have one or multiple scopes, which are indicative of the area of the Console or the user interested by that feature. Available scope types are: Console, Company, Project, Environment, and User.
```

*Console* scope means that a feature is valid for the whole Console; all the other scopes require to provide a scope ID.

Available features are visible from the *Features* section of the CMS.

> To enable a feature, navigate to the *Feature Activations* section of the CMS, which shows a table. Each entry in the table in *published* state represents an active feature.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To enable a feature, navigate to the *Feature Activations* section of the CMS, which shows a table. Each entry in the table in *PUBLIC* state represents an active feature.
```

> Click "Add new" and enter the feature ID, the scope type, and the scope ID (leave empty for the Console scope type). The just added feature activation will be in *published* state by default and immediatly enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click "Add new" and enter the feature ID, the scope type, and the scope ID (leave empty for the Console scope type). The just added feature activation will be in *published* state by default and immediately enabled.
```

> Click "Add new" and enter the feature ID, the scope type, and the scope ID (leave empty for the Console scope type). The just added feature activation will be in *published* state by default and immediately enabled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click "Add new" and enter the feature ID, the scope type, and the scope ID (leave this last field empty in case of Console scope type). The just added feature activation will be in *PUBLIC* state by default and immediately enabled.
```

> ### Google Analytics Tracking

Reviewer 3: This is not managed also by the helm chart?

Reviewer 2: this has been inserted in console version upgrader; it is among features.js, but it is not in features activation file

Google Analytics Tracking can be enabled activating the feature toggle `ENABLE_GOOGLE_TAG_MANAGER`, with *Console* scope.

> When the feature is enabled in the Console, the users will see a banner asking to express a preference either they would like to enable Google Analytics Tracking or not. By default, tracking stays disbaled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the feature is enabled in the Console, the users will be presented a banner asking to express a preference either they would like to enable Google Analytics Tracking or not. By default, tracking stays disabled.
```

> When the feature is enabled in the Console, the users will be presented a banner asking to express a preference either they would like to enable Google Analytics Tracking or not. By default, tracking stays disabled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the feature is enabled in the Console, users are presented with a banner asking them to express a preference on whether or not to enable Google Analytics tracking. By default, tracking remains disabled.
```

Hence, this feature is activated on a per-user basis.

> Once a preference has been expressed, the banner will be hidden, but the user can change this preference at any time from the [User Preferences section](../development_suite/user-settings/user-preferences).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once a preference has been expressed, the banner will be hidden, but the user can change this preference at any time from the [User Preferences section](../development_suite/user-settings/user-preferences.md).
```

> Once a preference has been expressed, the banner will be hidden, but the user can change this preference at any time from the [User Preferences section](../development_suite/user-settings/user-preferences.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once a preference has been expressed, the banner will be hidden, but the user can change this preference at any time from the [User Preferences section](/development_suite/user-settings/user-preferences.md).
```
